## Step 2: Learn about Finesse gadgets

## Gadget XML
Gadgets are specified in XML. The gadget's XML file is the core of the gadget as it is the only file that is mandatory. The XML contains all the information needed to identify and render the gadget.

The XML gadget specification consists of the following:

 * XML declaration
 * Module
  * ModulePrefs
  * UserPrefs
  * Content

### XML declaration
It is recommended to start the XML file with a XML declaration to avoid potential encoding errors. The XML declaration is a processing instruction that identifies the document as being XML.

If the XML declaration exists, it must be the first line of the XML file and no other content or white space can precede it. A typical XML declaration for a Finesse gadget is `<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>`.

The XML declaration consists of:

* **Version number** (`version="1.0"`): This is mandatory. The version number specifies the version of the XML standard that the XML document conforms to. Currently, the latest version of XML is 1.0.
* **Encoding declaration** (`encoding="UTF-8"`): This is optional. If it exist, it must appear immediately after the version information and the value must be an existing character encoding. The encoding declaration identifies which encoding is used to represent the characters in the document.

### Module
The `<Module>` tag indicates that the XML file contains a gadget. Within the `<Module>` tag, there are three elements:

* ModulePrefs
* UserPrefs
* Content

#### ModulePrefs
The [&lt;ModulePrefs&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#moduleprefs-elements-and-attributes) section in the XML file specifies the gadget preferences. It configures the characteristics of the gadget such as its title, description, author, preferred sizing and other optional features. The users of the gadget cannot change these attributes. `<ModulePrefs>` serves as a container element for all metadata, features, and processing rules.

Within the `<ModulePrefs>`, there are different elements such as:

* Locale
* Require
* Optional

##### ModulePrefs/Locale
The [&lt;Locale&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#L10N_Ref) element specifies the locales supported by your gadget. You can also use it to specify message bundles, as described in [Gadgets and Internationalization](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/i18n). The &lt;Locale&gt; element is optional.

##### ModulePrefs/Require and ModulePrefs/Optional
The [&lt;Require&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#moduleprefsrequire-and-moduleprefsoptional) and [&lt;Optional&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#moduleprefsrequire-and-moduleprefsoptional) elements declare feature dependencies of the gadget.

Finesse requires that all gadgets use the pubsub ModulePrefs feature:

* `<Require feature="pubsub-2"/>`: This feature is required for the gadget to load in the OpenAjax Hub.

It is also recommended that gadgets use the loading indicator ModulePrefs feature:

* `<Require feature="loadingindicator">`: This feature displays a loading message over gadgets while they are loading to provide a consistent user experience within Finesse.

For more details about the required and supported ModulePrefs, please see the [Supported OpenSocial Features](https://developer.cisco.com/docs/finesse/#supported-opensocial-features) of the [Finesse Developer Guide](https://developer.cisco.com/docs/finesse/#rest-api-dev-guide).

Example ModulePrefs:

```xml
<ModulePrefs title="Sample Gadget"
    description="Sample Gadget"
    thumbnail="http://localhost:8082/">

    <Require feature="settitle" />
    <Require feature="dynamic-height" />
    <Require feature="pubsub-2" />
    <Require feature="setprefs" />
    <Require feature="loadingindicator">
        <Param name="manual-dismiss">false</Param>
        <Param name="loading-timeout">10</Param>
    </Require>
</ModulePrefs>
```

#### UserPrefs
The [&lt;UserPrefs&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#user-preferences) section defines controls that allow users to specify settings for the gadget. For example, a personalized greeting gadget might provide a text field for users to specify their names. It describes the user input fields that is prompted before the page renders and are turned into user interface controls when the gadget runs. User preferences are stored persistently.

Example UserPrefs:

```xml
<UserPref name="myname" display_name="Name" required="true" />
<UserPref name="mychoice" display_name="Show Photo?" datatype="bool" default_value="true"/>
```

#### Content
The [&lt;Content&gt;](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/xml_reference#content-section) section is where the real work of the gadget happens. It specifies the programming logic and the HTML elements that determine the appearance of the gadget. It defines the type of content, and either holds the content itself or has a link to external content. The gadget attributes and user preferences are combined with programming logic and formatting information to become a running gadget.

`<Content>` provides the actual HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to be rendered by the gadget. Code is provided directly in the gadget XML content section for rendering and control flow. The code is processed by a gadget server and rendered in an IFRAME.

Example Content:

```xml
<Content type="html">
    <![CDATA[
        <!DOCTYPE html>
        <!-- Styling -->
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="SampleGadget_Final.css" type="text/css" />
        …
        …
        <script type="text/javascript">
            …
        </script>
    ]]>
</Content>
```

The content type determines:

* Which API features are available to you as a gadget author.
* How your gadget is rendered.
* Where you can deploy your gadget.

`<Content type="html">` indicates that the gadget's content type is HTML. With a HTML content type, all of the content typically resides in the gadget spec. A type="html" gadget contains HTML, possibly with embedded JavaScript, Flash, ActiveX, or other browser objects. This is the default type.

`<![CDATA[ ...insert HTML here... ]]>` is used to enclose HTML when a gadget's content type is HTML. It tells the gadget parser that the text within the CDATA section should not be treated as XML. The CDATA section typically contains HTML and JavaScript.

For more details about the content type, please see the [Choosing a Content Type](https://developers.google.com/gadgets/docs/fundamentals#choosing------------------a-content-type) section.

## Gadget JavaScript
Contains the business logic for the gadget. It can be written inside the gadget XML under the content section or an external JavaScript file can be created which can then be referred to using the src attribute in the `<script>` tag.

Example JavaScript inside the gadget XML:
```js
<Content type="html">
    <![CDATA[
        <iframe id="hello" width="900" height="300" src=""></iframe>

        <script type="text/javascript">
            gadgets.HubSettings.onConnect = function () {
                $("#hello").attr("src","https://www.google.com");
            };
        </script>
    ]]>
</Content>
```

Example external JavaScript file import:
```js
<Content type="html">
    <![CDATA[
        <!-- Gadget Business Logic -->
        <script type="text/javascript" src="HelloWorld.js"></script>
        ...
    ]]>
</Content>
```

## Gadget CSS
Contains the complete styling of the gadget. Similar to the JavaScript, CSS can also be referred to as an external file using href attribute in `<link>` tag.
